JESUS THE PRINCE OF PEACE
“For a child will be born to us, a son will be given to us; And the government will rest on His shoulders; 
And His name will be called Wonderful Counselor, Mighty God, Eternal Father, Prince of Peace” (Isaiah 9:6).

Take the first step:

“So if you are offering your gift on the altar, and there you remember that your brother has something against you, 
leave your gift there in front of the altar. First go and be reconciled with your brother, 
and then come and offer your gift” (Matt. 5:23-24).

“A gentle answer turns away anger, but a harsh word stirs up wrath” (Prov. 15:1).

“Blessed are the peacemakers, because they will be called sons of God” (Matt. 5:9). 

1 Corinthians 14:33


For God is not the author of confusion, but of peace, as in all churches of the saints.

Romans 14:19
So then, let us pursue what leads to peace and to mutual edification.

Forgiveness
…17Do not repay anyone evil for evil. 
Carefully consider what is right in the eyes of everybody. 
18 If it is possible on your part, live at peace with everyone. 
19Do not avenge yourselves, beloved, but leave room for God’s wrath.
 For it is written: “Vengeance is Mine; I will repay, says the Lord.”…


Principles of Marriage
…14For the unbelieving husband is sanctified through his believing wife, and the unbelieving 
wife is sanctified through her believing husband. 
Otherwise your children would be unclean, but now they are holy. 
15But if the unbeliever leaves, let him go. 
The believing brother or sister is not bound in such cases. 
God has called you to live in peace. 
16How do you know, wife, whether you will save your husband? 
Or how do you know, husband, whether you will save your wife?…





 
 
 
 Proverbs 3:30
Do not accuse a man without cause, when he has done you no harm.

Leviticus 19:18
Do not seek revenge or bear a grudge against any of your people, but love your neighbor as yourself. I am the LORD.

Psalm 94:1
O LORD, God of vengeance, O God of vengeance, shine forth.

Proverbs 20:22
 Galatians 5:19-21 

[19]Now the works of the flesh are evident, which are: 
adultery, 
fornication, 
uncleanness, 
lewdness,[20]idolatry, sorcery, hatred, contentions, jealousies, outbursts of wrath, 
selfish ambitions, dissensions, heresies,[21]envy, murders, drunkenness, revelries, 
and the like; of which I tell you beforehand, 
just as I also told you in time past, that those who practice such things will not inherit the kingdom of God.

...THE KILLER OF NATURAL WITCHCRAFT IS THE WORD OF GOD. 

Hebrews 4:12

For the word of God is living and powerful , and sharper than any two-edged sword, piercing even to the division of soul and spirit , and of joints and marrow , and is a discerner of the thoughts and intents of the heart.

Do not say, "I will avenge this evil!" Wait on the LORD, and He will save you.

Romans 12:14,17
Bless them which persecute you: bless, and curse not…

If it be possible, as much as lieth in you, live peaceably with all men.
— Romans 12:18

Leviticus 19:18
Thou shalt not avenge, nor bear any grudge against the children of thy people, but thou shalt love thy neighbour as thyself: I am the LORD.

Matthew 5:39
But I say unto you, That ye resist not evil: but whosoever shall smite thee on thy right cheek, turn to him the other also.

Luke 6:27-29
But I say unto you which hear, Love your enemies, do good to them which hate you, …

Living with ‘out of tune’ people
Keep in-tune yourself
Recognize that you also are out of tune in some way much of the time, so you need to submit your life routinely to God for tuning. By doing so, you are leading by example.
Find a corner of a rooftop
At times that difficult person can wear down on you, like a dripping tap, so much so that you need a physical place of relief.
Proverbs tells us that it is ‘Better to live on a corner of the roof than share a house with a quarrelsome wife.’ Proverbs 21:9Find a place where you can recover and pray.
Don’t rescue
There are natural consequences for bad behavior. What you sow you reap. Don’t rescue people from the mess they have created.
If you rescue them, how will they learn?
Serenity prayer
Pray the serenity prayer regularly.God, grant me the serenity
to accept the things I cannot change,
the courage to change the things I can,
and the wisdom to know the difference.
Boundaries
Grow in internal strength where you can express your boundaries of what is acceptable and what is not.
Learn about the lines of love and respect.
Detach and let them go
There are times we need to let the difficult person go. Much like the father did with his difficult prodigal son, he let him follow his folly.
Leave the miracles up to God
God is in hot pursuit of your difficult person. The beautiful poem ‘The Hound of Heaven’ speaks to this loving pursuit.You can only do what you can do, leave the miracles up to God.
We all have difficult people in our lives, but with prayer, patience, and staying in the zone of what we can do, we can find a way through.